title: Muslim fanatics
date: 2006-02-10 09:21
excerpt: 
categories: blog

So I guess most of you have heard of the incident where a Danish newspaper printed some cartoons depicting Muhammad and the entire Muslim community seems to be in a great rage about it? If not check it out [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jyllands-Posten_Muhammad_cartoons) (Wikipedia) to get the details.

Basically, some newspaper printed a few comics, all ribbing the Muslim's Muhammad, and quite a big riot broke out. Muslim's throwing petrol bombs at UN buildings and such, protesting in the streets, people dead and injured, police injured (maybe some dead, I don't know), lethal weapons used by both the police and the Muslim fanatic groups. Although some protests have been peaceful, most have used anger and violence so far.

I have a couple questions:

What's the deal with the Muslim's protesting to other countries? It seems that if a Danish newspaper got on their nerves, they should protest the NEWSPAPER! Maybe if the newspaper didn't listen to them, they should protest the DANISH GOVERNMENT! Not all these other countries! What's the deal anyway? It seems that the Danish government is not listening (no surprise) so the Islamic community is going straight to the U.N. and demanding an imposed sanction. I suppose this is logical, start with the lowest, move up to the highest: Start with the newspaper, move up to the U.N. Now let's look farther ahead here, what if the U.N. doesn't listen (it probably won't(I hope it won't))? There is really no higher authority (except God Himself) so they will start protesting everywhere, making their cause known to the world. And if that fails? ...

What's the deal with religion anyway? That is to indirectly say, what's the deal with Christians anyway? And by this I mean as follows: Here it seems the Muslim's have found these cartoons derogatory to their faith and they are ready to protest right away. So then, look at the Christian's who have the very foundation of their faith mocked and derided daily, are there protests? Is there violent opposition? The answer is an educated no! Although some violence has occurred, it is not common. And protests are fairly common, but I don't know of a whole lot that turned violent.

So what's the deal? Ephesians 6:12 gives us a hint: "Our battle is not against flesh and blood..." Also, Jesus Himself tells us that we will face great persecution (Matthew 24:9) and even that if we really <span style="font-style: italic;">do</span> love God, we should even <span style="font-style: italic;">expect</span> to face persecution. So I suppose that when people mock our faith, when they "persecute" (this word I use in a basic sense, it is highly unlikely that anyone in America has faced stoning or painful death because of their faith), when they treat us with derision, we are ready since we know it's bound to come. I mean, you <span style="font-style: italic;">do</span> know you will be laughed at and picked on for your faith, <span style="font-style: italic;">don't</span> you? Basically, I am saying that in Christianity we know that people will hate us for knowing the truth so when they do we don't seem to react.

Maybe it's time for Christian's to get off their asses and protest, even violently oppose the worldly views and beliefs? I don't think that God commanded us to do so, it seems He wasn't so much interested in a worldview (don't get me wrong, He did use violence at least once so He is interested, but you get my point?) but very interested in changing <span style="font-style: italic;">people</span>. Kids, let me tell it to you straight, it's not so much about changing the laws on abortion (legal to illegal, a serious issue) but it's about changing the <span style="font-style: italic;">hearts</span> of the people around us.