title: The space between us
date: 2006-02-07 21:20
excerpt: 
categories: blog

Here I am, sitting watching a woman who I know (but not very well), and she smiles and talks to her friend (I think it's her friend, or she's just friendly, which she is but I digress) but when silence happens (you know what I mean, that silence that comes about occasionally in conversation) I see something else. Watch her eyes and you can see what I see, maybe you can tell me what it is, a sort of sadness is in her eyes. Maybe it's my own heart reflected in her eyes (BAM! I just got personal!), but it seems to be a deep thoughtfulness, a stillness. It's not so much that I am attracted to the eyes that are lonely (it could be interpreted that she has "lonely" eyes, I don't really think they are) it's that I find myself deeply interested, concerned even, that she would ever feel quite so alone that her eyes are downcast in sadness. Alas! Is that even a tear I see? Just kidding about the tears. Most of this reminds me of a poem by Billy Collins "The First Dream", which the last line says "you might have gone down as the first person / to ever fall in love with the sadness of another." This poem needs to be read by everyone. To continue, I later said hello, she said hello, and then we both said we were fine and said goodbye, see you later, all that jazz. Nonsense! What's the deal with her anyway?!? Next time I see her I will make it a point to ask that difficult question, but then I become afraid that I am seeing thing's that aren't there. Because, look! Her friend returns and they start talking again, she smiles and laughs (crystal clear, healthy and playful) but is it still there in her eyes? Bah, I don't know.