title: The Stronghold
date: 2009-06-27 09:14
excerpt: 
categories: theology-thoughts

I have been reading through the book "Holiness by Grace", by Bryan Chapell, and I came across this section which I thought was worth repeating.

Pg. 135, par. 4 and following:

Consider the pressures that face modern Christians despite centuries of refining biblical thought and fighting for biblical principles. The fortresses of fundamentalism that artificially kept potential temptations at arm's bay by demonizing all forms of alcohol, tobacco, card playing, and theatre going are crumbling throughout the evangelical world. At the same time, the accessibility and allurement of the Internet have put sexual temptation, material indulgence, gambling entertainment, personal disengagement, and ungodly communications within a mouse-click of persons of every age and social station. The expectations of business travel, the interactivity of genders in the workplace, the "freedoms" of the pill, the isolation provided by closed-apartment lifestyles (even when living in million dollar homes), the personal anonymity allowed by multi-thousand seat worship centers, the enticements of consumerism endlessly promoted by amoral Western prosperity--all combine to create a culture where sin is nearer to the door of even the most socially respectable than ever before.

At the same time that these winds of external change blast us, changing patterns of family and church relationships make our spiritual footing unsure. A short list of the cultural gales that have swept over our traditional centers of spiritual development would include: divorce frequency, domestic partnership acceptability, single-parent families, two-parent paychecks, abortion availability, day care, the busyness of soccer-moms and career- or hobby dads, the media preoccupation of teens, the recreation orientation of Sunday, and the decline of biblical literacy. The breakdown of traditional structures that nurture faith not only have robbed us of models of how to live godly lives, but have also removed even from Christians the ordinary restraints against temptation that past generations of believers had built (sometimes through inappropriate legalism) into their lives.

Combating this cultural mix of libertine tendencies with the gospel of God's unconditional love is counter intuitive. Strong assurance of God's unearned affection would seem almost assured to lead to abuse (and excuse) of grace in order to pursue freedoms contrary to Scripture. When religious opponents argued with John Bunyan in prison, they urged him not to assure his Christian friends of God's unswerving love. "If you keep assuring the people of God's love," the opponents argued, "they will do whatever they want." Replied Bunyan, "If I assure God's people of his love, then they will do whatever he wants."

Of course, there are those who will try to take advantage of God's mercy to excuse their wrongdoing. However, those who truly love God and have their renewed hearts continually warmed by reminders of his mercy, desire to please him. Due to the limitations of our humanity this desire does ebb, but is refueled both by the scriptural promises of God's care and by the observation of what occurs to those who depart from his ways.

The consequence of wandering from God's path are evident in the moral "freedoms" of our fracturing society. With all this personal liberty, we have discovered great bondage--not merely to occasional temptation, but to ingrained patterns of biblical violation, unhealthy thought, and spiritually destructive behavior. Our slavery becomes apparent in our prayers for release from compulsive, addictive, and repeated sin. We pray, "God, please help me to stop ... to stand against this temptation ... to resist this sin ... to change this habit ... to act differently ... to be rid of this compulsion ... not to fall again, to yield again, or to be this way again ..."

Our release from the perception that we must live according to the law of merit does not end our longing for freedom from personal indulgence and selfishness. We want our identity in Christ to become the foundation of a life that is not shackled to the world's empty promises of happiness, pleasure, and fulfillment.