title: I found a 1889 World-Herald
date: 2009-07-03 10:27
excerpt: 
categories: blog

I have in my possession an "Omaha Daily World-Herald" newspaper from July 15, 1889 (yes you read that right), which is quite awesome to behold. The paper itself is yellowed and slightly brittle, the top edges showing the effect of time and oxidation, and the ink has nearly been worn off at the creases.

What is most interesting to note, at least to me, is the actual news articles. They are generally short, concise, and lacking the general left/right-wing political barbs. Try this one on for size (front page news, mind you:
> McCook, Neb., July 14-[Special.]-The Catholic church and the dwelling of Banker Shaw, which were simultaneously struck and set on fire during the electric storm of Saturday morning, have been found badly damaged, and but for the prompt work of the fire department would have been completely burned. The former is damaged to the extent of $800, and the latter to $1,200, both covered by insurance.
The whole thing was well written and concise and it's pretty neat and to the point. Here's one of my favorites, it's about some lady who saw some dude beating his wife, so this lady tells him he should be ashamed. It ends with guns, so awesome:
> Baltimore, Md., July 14-[Special]-Another murder is added to Baltimore's list. Elizabeth Ellen Gross shot and killed James E. Coates early this morning. The Gross woman states that Coates was beating his wife and she (Gross) told him he should be ashamed. Coates said he would kill her. Shortly after Coates whipped out a razor and used threatening language to the Gross woman, when she took her histol out of her pocket and shot him dead.
Now, I'm not a big fan of people getting shot, and I don't know what the outcome of the trial was (assuming there was one), but it sure seems to me like the guy had it coming. First of all, he was beating his wife. This in itself is not a crime punishable by death, but is certainly a bad thing, and a sure sign of uncontrolled physical aggression. Second, he threatened "the Gross woman", a statement which makes me chuckle, even though it is serious. Finally, he pulls out a razor and (I like to imagine) starts walking toward the woman.

Times have sure changed, haven't they? Used to be a woman could be counted on to carry a pistol for emergencies, but what do we have now? Guys in Congress passing laws making it harder for a woman to defend herself, that's what, those spineless bast...

Anyways, the real thing I wanted to show you was this next piece, note that this also was on the <span style="font-style: italic;">front page</span> of the Omaha World Herald. I'm only typing out part of it, so here's the backdrop: In Charleston, S.C., this dude McDow confesses to adultery and murder, but a jury ("a packed jury, as some claim") acquitted him. The World-Herald prints a piece of a sermon preached by one of a group of preachers who are denouncing McDow. Below you will find most of that sermon reprinted. May I remind you, this was on the <span style="font-weight: bold;"><span style="font-style: italic;">front page</span></span>. I don't think that would happen anytime soon. Also keep in mind, this was 1889, so the word choice is a bit different, though perfectly readable to most of my home-school friends:
> Bad neighborhood and covetousness, two ill-favored children of sin and grand children of lust; already born. Where, surely, will this base conditioned family end, and the devilish meaness of this spirit of coveteousness; who can fitly characterize it. It coveted what? The pearl of womanhood; all that goes to make woman woman, her chastity. With snake-like sinuousity and treachery it invades the neighbor's home, makes a breach upon the household in the absence of their lawful protectors and besieges a peculiarly defenseless woman to posess this pearl. A man's house you say is his castle. His maid servant by the law of the Tenth commandment is for all obligations of defense his.Now who, self-confessedly, was the first invader of the house, the castle, the home. And such an invasion for a purpose so base. What are the moral, and what should be the legal deserts of such an invader. If the well being of society is ever to be established, vindicated, with what holy anger, what burning moral indignation should such a spirit and conduct be clearly and strongly reprobated.> 
> 
> Lust when crossed, exposed, reproved or hopelessly baffled, is prone to kill. Call it in the courts by whatever name you will, in accordance with the evidence adduced, whether self defense, manslaughter or murder--lust leads to the fatal conclusion--death. Bloodshed, killing, is the outcome; a result dependent upon the firstwooings of lust, which never would or could have occured if the sinful course of lust had not been entered upon. Hence, morally, sensual lust, or rather the one guilty of indulging in it is at first hand responsible.> 
> 
> In the natural and moral order the Apostle James, in the utterance of the text, is right where he says, "When lust hath concieved, it bringeth forth sin; and sin when it is full grown, bringeth forth death," and however on one occasion one may be legally, from doubt or lack of evidence, acquitted, whose sensual, lustful course has led to the slaying of another, yet must it ever be logically truethat sensual lust, when allowed freely to run its full course, may end in the gallows as it's goal.