title: There's a quiet whisper in the air,
date: 2006-08-30 09:42
excerpt: 
is_published: false
categories: blog

Hello everyone. I have decided to reveal something to you all which I have been stewing on a long time. I didn't really want to speak my mind online, but I decided it is the broadest medium available and so on... So, here I am, revealing myself in a very personal way:

I have struggles with understanding things, with memory of subjects, with memories in general. But there is a time in my life that is now a far distant memory, it keeps me awake late into the night, a stirring inside my heart for something I left in the past. These memories I will speak of now, in full honesty and openness, but I don't remember when they happened or in what order they happened. So the following are fragmented memories of mine, they are not written in any order of time or importance:

One time in my life I had a party, a party celebrating my tenth birthday. It was in a church, a church with red brick walls and a white painted roof, inside the basement was a large area for gathering and inside the kitchen in the basement was a stairway which seemed mysterious to me and led outside. In one of the rooms was a chimney flue from the furnace, it had a small pot-iron door on it and I used to sneak away and look inside it. One day I looked inside and found a dead bird; It had flew into the chimney and couldn't get back out so it died. The church was huge, it had large wooden rafters and a stage where we performed and recorded some music, just some of our family and a friend played the cello. I remember sneaking around one afternoon and finding crowns and robes stored away in a cupboard, they were for a play for Christmas. The pastor was a nice man, he talked about things I didn't understand, but sometimes I listened and payed attention because he knew the truth. One day people started yelling at each other in the church, I don't know what about, a few weeks after that everyone from that church had left and never came back. I remember standing in the back of the church, looking around and realizing that we would never return and all my friends I had made would disappear. One of them didn't.

At another time and another church, my family went there. My oldest sister got married in this church, it was one of the happier days of my life. This church had a white ceiling and dark brown heavy rafters, its pews were a blue color I think, there was a man who used to sit in back and run the sound system. I remember a time when there was no pastor, but an older man came in and preached, then we found another pastor. I remember the main door was in the basement, then there were some stairs that led to the sanctuary. There was a big open area, but sometimes I would help roll out some walls which had words tacked to them, or posters. This church I remember more than the first one, it was not quite so long ago. There was a girl there with the most beautiful eyes who I used to torment with my childish affections, I think I loved her in a selfish way. But that passed after a while and she later got married, I even got to go to the wedding. One day I left for a while to a camp with lots of cedar trees to wash dishes and clean things during the summer, then I called my Mom and found out that there was arguing in the church, people were fighting and calling each other bad things and yelling at each other. When I heard this, my heart was broken in despair because I loved the people in this church, every one of them. I broke down and wept in the arms of a man I barely knew, he also disappeared. Later, my family left the church and so did many other friends, I never got to see anyone for a while because when I went back home after the summer everyone had already left. I still love those people, but I don't know how to tell them anymore.

One other time I met this girl in a youth group we had at the second church, she was beautiful and quiet. She once gave me a ring made of duct-tape and said she would marry me. I believed her because I had fallen in love and wanted it to be true. Maybe it was true because she invited me to be her date at her schools prom, I remember she wore a red dress and had a smile which I didn't understand. I wanted to tell her how beautiful she was, I don't think it came out right. Later that night I refused to dance with her, I don't know what I told her, but I was afraid. Afraid that I would be a fool and embarrass her even more, afraid that I would stumble and sin because I was a weak man, barely a man at all. And I did other things I am ashamed of, but I can't remember them all very well. The last thing I remember is that I told the biggest lie I have ever told, I said I only loved her as a sister. But another thing I remember is me acting the fool and embarrassing her, so I don't know what was going on. But I remember one thing, that I one moment realized that I had let walk past me the woman I loved and she would never return. I'm sorry for my lies, I'm sorry for being such a child.

I remember another time, in the very far past, a giant house we used to live in with solid oak doors and a back porch big enough to run around on. The front porch had extra wide steps and we used to sit on them and watch the cars go by. My Dad had a shop in the garage where he worked on old furniture, antiques, and whittled strange things. I remember there was a wood burning stove, I think it is called a Franklin stove, that stood away from the wall and had little designs on it and a funny little top piece that decorated it but it's bottom peg was broken so it ended up skewed sideways all the time. I used to go out into the shop and stand there, looking at the stove and watching my Dad work on the strange machines that were inside of pianos. One time, not so long ago, I was eating breakfast with my Dad and talked a little bit about the old house and the old times and how I wished we could go back to them. It was one of a few rare times I saw my Dad get real quiet and sad, with that look that was looking at you and reaching back into time all at once. He had a very tired voice, sad and almost crying when he said "So do I son, so do I." And then he told me that he didn't want to talk much about those times.

If I try real hard, I can remember two people from even further in the past: The woman I first loved, and her father. I was only a child then, I don't imagine more than 8, but my memory often deceives me. My family and this family were very close friends, this girl and I were the closest. I remember sometimes in flashes of memory that we were best friends, I told her everything and she told me everything. I remember that her Dad had an electric wheelchair and he had to drive it everywhere because he couldn't walk. But he was one of the coolest people that I know, him and my Dad were real good friends also. One day I came over to their house, and this girls girl-friends were there and she picked on me and I didn't understand. But not many weeks after that, her Dad died and I remember another family got up and left the service because of the music was too rocky. Soon after that, her Mom got married to another man and I remember at the wedding that this girl who was once my closest friend started crying and yelling, but I couldn't understand why. Then later, she went really crazy and they had to take her away and that was the last I ever heard. It's hard when I best friend dies, but when a best friend just disappears...

There are many memories in my mind, all of them revolve around one thing: People I used to know and love, disappearing into the past and fading like a shadow. If I return to the people I used to know, will they let me heal, can I be forgiven also? If I meet these people, what will I say? I know what I would tell one of them, one special person who disappeared ages ago.

<span style="font-size: 130%;"><span style="font-style: italic;">There's a quiet whisper in the air, it's the sound of someone you used to know.</span></span>