title: Sanctity of Life and the Death Penalty
date: 2008-08-29 07:09
excerpt: 
categories: reviews, theology-thoughts

I finished reading chapter two of Rushdoony's amazing book "[Law and Liberty](http://chalcedon.edu/search/?query=law+and+liberty)" (I recommend you forgo whatever luxury you had planned and buy it NOW) which is about the sanctity of life. These are some thoughts I had in reflection:

The thought I have heard repeated, in Christian as well as secular circles, is that the death penalty is wrong because "life is sacred" and killing, being the taking of life, is outright wrong. The reason is altogether humanistic: Life is sacred, humans are alive (have life), killing is taking life, and therefore killing is always wrong. Some type of reasoning is to be found in all cases, and yields such views as: All wars are outright wrong (no just wars), Animals have a valid claim to life equally with humans, and, No matter how bad a crime might be it is not acceptable to have the death penalty.

Rushdoony references a case where the father of a six year-old girl (the girl being "brutally slain by a sex pervert") said, "I can't blame the man as much as the society which produced him." This un-Biblical reasoning is the exact mindset which <span style="font-style: italic;">by necessity</span> flows from a human centered philosophy. The Bible clearly says that we are either enslaved to Christ or Sin, and those who have rejected Christ are chained to sinful mindsets, in the previous case a mindset of irresponsibility specifically. That is, the other-persons-fault mindset which is <span style="font-style: italic;">absurdly</span> prevalent in America is a fault of <span style="font-style: italic;">each individual</span> refusing to take responsibility for their own action and dissatisfaction.

To return from that brief rabbit trail, the real issue is this: Killing (all killing) is prohibited in such law as God has given: "Who sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed" <span style="font-size: 85%;">(Gen. 9:6)</span>, "He that smiteth a man, so that he die, shall surely be put to death" <span style="font-size: 85%;">(Ex. 21:12)</span>, "The murderer shall be put to death" <span style="font-size: 85%;">(Num. 35:16-18)</span> etc... However, to outright say that God has forbidden <span style="font-style: italic;">any</span> killing is absurd, but rather, the authority of killing is God's alone and He has delegated it in specific ways to the government. I do not think that, when Romans 13 says the government "does not bear the sword in vain", it will only use the sword as some shiny distraction, but rather as killing judgement.

No killing (taking of life) is allowed except by what authority God has given, in specific cases of transgressing <span style="font-style: italic;">God's</span> law. For example, taking someones life without God's scriptural authorization <span style="font-style: italic;">requires</span> that said person be killed. In fact, as Rushdoony points out, if a magistrate<span style="font-style: italic;"><span style="font-style: italic;"> </span></span>fails to enact <span style="font-style: italic;">all</span> the laws (in this case, I refer to the <span style="font-style: italic;">law</span> of capital punishment) they are in rebellion to God, and "even their prayers will be an abomination." <span style="font-size: 85%;">(Prov. 28:9)</span> However, this should be some comfort, since this absolutely forbids "sins" against the state being punishable by death, something that is happening in various forms even now, <span style="font-style: italic;">all</span> crimes punishable by death are crimes against <span style="font-style: italic;">God</span> foremost.

This is why there is <span style="font-style: italic;"><span style="font-weight: bold;">no</span></span> contradiction in being against abortion and for the death penalty: God has required of us to use the death penalty, and also required of us to defend human life. I am absolutely pro-life and I support the death penalty. This is not an idea the humanist can truly understand, since they already reject God's definition of life, and they reject God's law.

Further, as Rushdoony states, "man proven guilty cannot be the object of pity". That is, if a person is rightly convicted of some sin deserving the death penalty, we cannot have pity on them in any way. Rushdoony says it best: "Those who are full of pity for the guilty criminal are themselves men who have forsaken the law. Their pity for the criminal is itself a sign of depravity."

"They that forsaketh the law praise the wicked: but such as keep the law contend with them." Proverbs 28:4

How many times have you praised the works of those who are wicked (MTV, Heretical churches, Planned Parenthood, Hollywood, the ACLU, etc.)? You yourself are displaying that <span style="font-style: italic;"><span style="font-weight: bold;">you have rejected the law</span></span>. It is not myself who judges your heart, but God above knows if you are on the side of the wicked. I have praised the works of wicked men in the past, and I repent of it.