title: A Strange Dream.
date: 2007-02-13 02:04
excerpt: 
is_published: false
categories: blog

Last night I had a very peculiar dream, it was intensely realistic although during the dream I knew it was a dream. So I guess it was like taking part in a movie I was watching, or a bit of theatre or something. Anyway, it was a very nice dream, a bit disconcerting at first, but nice.

It took place in Omaha, in places that I somehow knew from when I was much younger but I can't quite place them now. The part that I really remember was when Nathan (my brother) and Esther Walker and I went to Esther's house. The strangest thing about it was that the house was the same house that I grew up in: My Grandpa's house. The only thing that went on was that all three of us went inside and Esther and I were talking about some different soups that she was making. They were all those thin, watery kind of soups that have some chicken broth base or similar, I can't remember what they are called. Anyway, we talked about that and we talked about other things also, but it all seemed like just two good friends hanging out: No romantic tension, no intimacy that would suggest a relationship, only one thing that would suggest it: Nathan was off doing something else, like the "tag-along" does on a date. You know what I mean, not really getting involved in any of the conversation or anything. It was kind of nice to be real casual with a girl.

It really got me thinking though. If I really do find myself attracted to a girl, I don't want to start a relationship without God's blessing on it. I remember how William and Sara first met, it was very casual. I think, however, that if you start any relationship with the opposite sex, it will always have a hint of the possibility of a relationship. For instance, let us say I wanted to be better friends with Esther Walker. For what reason? But just as soon as I did, it would have the possibility of a lasting relationship. It's true that you can start a relationship with a member of the opposite sex and have it not develop into intimacy, but it needs to be developed that way from the start and there are certain things you will never be able to talk about--sort of. I think at times that I worry too much about these things, maybe it's true, but I don't want to be the kind of guy that dates a thousand women. I don't want to decieve a woman by acting in one way and meaning something else. I also don't want to get to the point of starting an intimate relationship and the girl thinks "What the heck!?!" because she never saw it coming. Or maybe that would be a good thing? I know this comes naturally to some guys, but I struggle with it.